docs(examples): adds java spring boot examples (#7226)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/examples/secure-api/java-spring.md

---
title: ZITADEL with Java Spring Boot
sidebar_label: Java Spring Boot
---

This integration guide shows you how to integrate **ZITADEL** into your Java Spring Boot API. It demonstrates how to secure your API using
OAuth 2 Token Introspection.

At the end of the guide you should have an API with a protected endpoint.

> > This documentation references our [example](https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel-java) on GitHub.
> > You can either create your own application or directly run the example by providing the necessary arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
This documentation references our [example](https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel-java) on GitHub.
You can either create your own application or directly run the example by providing the necessary arguments.
:::
```

After successful creation of the app, a pop-up will appear displaying the app's client ID. Copy the client ID and secret, as you will need it to configure your Java client.

![Create api key in console](/img/java-spring/api-create-clientid-secret.png)

## Spring Setup

Now that you have configured your web application on the ZITADEL side, you can proceed with the integration of your Spring client.
This guide will reference the [example repository](https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel-java) and explain the necessary steps taken in there.
If your starting from scratch, you can use the Spring Initializer with the [following setup](https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=3.2.1&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=17&dependencies=web,lombok,oauth2-resource-server) as a base.

### Support class

To be able to take the most out of ZITADELs RBAC, we first need to create a CustomAuthorityOpaqueTokenIntrospector, that will
customize the introspection behaviour and map the role claims (`urn:zitadel:iam:org:project:roles`)
into Spring Security `authiorities`, which can be used later on to determine the granted permissions.

> So in your application, create a 'support/zitadel' package and in there the `CustomAuthorityOpaqueTokenIntrospector.java`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So in your application, create a `support/zitadel` package and in there the `CustomAuthorityOpaqueTokenIntrospector.java`:
```
